APBS 1.4.2.0 (2016-01)
======================

-------------
Binary builds
-------------

Binary releases may be found on `GitHub <https://gitgub.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/releases/>`_ and on `SourceForge <https://sourceforge.net/projects/apbs/files/apbs/>`_.

------------
New features
------------

* Poisson-Boltzmann Semi-Analytical Method (PB-SAM) packaged and build with APBS.
* New Geometric flow API and improvements: https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/235
* Support for BinaryDX file format: https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/216
* SOR solver added for mg-auot input file option.
* DXMath improvements https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/168 and https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/216
* Test suite improvements:

  * APBS build in Travis-CI
  * Geometric Flow test added.
  * Protein RNA test enabled https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/149
  * Intermediate result testing https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/64

* Example READMEs converted to markdown and updated with latest results.

---------
Bug fixes
---------

* OpenMPI (mg-para) functionality restored: https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/190
* Fized parsing PQR files that contained records other than ATOM and HETATM: https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/77 and https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/214
* Geometrix Flow boundary indexing bug fixed.
* Build fixes:

  * Out of source CMake build are again working.
  * Python library may be built:  https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/372
  * CentOS 5 binary builds for glibc compability.
  * Pull requests merged.

*  Removed irrelevant warning messages: https://github.com/Electrostatics/apbs-pdb2pqr/issues/378

-----
Notes
-----

* The following packages are treated as submodules in APBS:

  * Geometric Flow has been moved to its own repository:  https://github.com/Electrostatics/geoflow_c/
  * FETk has been cloned: https://github.com/Electrostatics/FETK/
  * PB-SAM lives here:  https://github.com/Electrostatics/PB-SAM/

* Added `chat feature <https://gitter.im/Electrostatics/help/>`_ for users. 

----------
Known bugs
----------

* Travis-CI Linux builds are breaking because Geometric Flow relies on C++11 and Travis boxen have an old GCC that does not support C++11. This is also an issue for CentOS 5.
* BEM is temporarily disabled due to build issues.
* Geometric Flow build is currently broken on Windows using Visual Studio.
