APBS 1.4.2.1 (2016-01)
======================

------------
New features
------------

* Poisson-Boltzmann Semi-Anlytical Method (PB-SAM) packaged and built with APBS.
* New Geometric flow API and improvements in speed.
* Support for BinaryDX file format.
* SOR solver added for mg-auto input file option.
* DXMath improvements.
* Test suit improvements:
  * APBS build in Travis-CI
  * Geometric Flow tests added.
  * Protein RNA tests enabled.
  * Intermediate results testing.
* Example READMEs onverted to markdown and updated with latest results. 

---------
Bug fixes
---------

* OpenMPI (mg-para) functionality restored.
* Fixed parsing PQR files that contained records other than ATOM and HETATM.
* Geometric Flow boundary indexing bug fixed.
* Build fixes:
  * Out of source CMake build are again working.
  * Python library may be built.
  * CentOS 5 binary builds for glibc compatibility.
  * Pull requests merged.
* Removed irrelevant warning messages.

-----
Notes
-----

The following packages are treated as submodules in APBS:
* Geometric Flow has been moved to its own `repository <https://github.com/Electrostatics/geoflow_c>`_.
* FETk has been `cloned <https://github.com/Electrostatics/FETK>`_ so that we could effect updates.
* PB-SAM lives here:  https://github.com/Electrostatics/PB-SAM

Added a `chat feature <https://gitter.im/Electrostatics/help>`_ for users.

----------
Known bugs
----------

* Travis CI Linux builds are breaking because Geometric Flow relies on C++11 and Travis boxen have an old GCC that does not support C++11. This also and issue for CentOS 5.
* BEM is temporarily disabled due to build issues.
* Geometric Flow build is currently broken on Windows using Visual Studio.
